
Set-1

1. What is the data type of the value 3.14 in Python?
a) int
b) float (Correct)
c) str
d) complex
e) bool
Explanation: 3.14 is a decimal number, so its data type is float.

2. What will type("123") return?
a) int
b) float
c) str (Correct)
d) list
e) integer
Explanation: "123" is a string literal, so its type is str.

3. Which data type in Python is mutable?
a) tuple
b) string
c) list (Correct)
d) frozenset
e) None
Explanation: Lists can be modified after creation, unlike tuples or strings.

4. How can you convert a list into a tuple?​
a) tuple() (Correct)​
b) list()​
c) to_tuple()​
d) convert()​
e) tuple{}​
Explanation: The tuple() function converts lists to tuples.

5. What is the main difference between a list and a set in Python?
a) List is unordered, Set is ordered
b) List allows duplicates, Set doesn’t (Correct)
c) Both are ordered
d) Set allows duplicates, List doesn’t
e) None of the Above
Explanation: Lists allow duplicate elements and preserve order; sets don't.

6. What data type is returned by the expression {1, 2, 3}?
a) dict
b) list
c) tuple
d) set (Correct)
e) int
Explanation: Curly braces with comma-separated values create a set literal unless it's key-value pairs.

7. How do you check the data type of a variable in Python?
a) datatype(x)
b) typeof(x)
c) type(x) (Correct)
d) checktype(x)
e) dtype(x)
Explanation: type() returns the data type of a variable.

8. What happens if you try to use a list as a key in a dictionary?
a) It works normally
b) It converts list into a tuple automatically
c) It raises an error: unhashable type 'list' (Correct)
d) It removes duplicates and works fine
e) Error not found
Explanation: Lists are mutable and cannot be dictionary keys.

9. What is the data type of the variable after this code executes? x = {"a": 1, "b": 2}
a) dict (Correct)
b) list
c) set
d) tuple
e) dic
Explanation: Curly braces with key-value pairs define a dictionary.

10. What is the difference between is and == in Python?
a) Both compare values only
b) is compares identity, == compares values (Correct)
c) Both compare identity only
d) == compares memory location
e) All of the above
Explanation: "is" checks if two variables point to the same object; "==" checks if values are equal.














Set-2

1. What is the output data type of this expression? (5 >= 2)
a) int
b) bool (Correct)
c) str
d) float
Explanation: The comparison returns a boolean value True or False.

2. What is the data type of the result of input() in Python 3?
a) int
b) str (Correct)
c) float
d) bool
Explanation: input() returns a string by default.

3. How can you convert a string '25' into an integer 25?
a) integer('25')
b) str(25)
c) float('25')
d) int('25') (Correct)
Explanation: int() converts string digits into integers.

4. What will be the type of None in Python?
a) <class 'bool'>
b) <class 'NoneType'> (Correct)
c) <class 'str'>
d) <class 'object'>
Explanation: None is a special constant of type NoneType.

5. What is the difference between a shallow copy and a deep copy in lists?
a) Shallow copy duplicates nested objects, deep copy doesn’t
b) Deep copy duplicates nested objects, shallow copy doesn’t (Correct)
c) Both duplicate nested objects
d) Neither duplicates nested objects
Explanation: Deep copy copies all nested objects recursively; shallow copy copies references only.

6. What is the result of type({}) and type(set())?
a) dict and set (Correct)
b) set and dict
c) list and tuple
d) str and bool
Explanation: {} creates an empty dictionary; set() creates an empty set.

7. How can you remove duplicate elements from a list using data types?
a) list(set(list_name)) (Correct)
b) list(unique(list_name))
c) remove_duplicates(list_name)
d) set(list_name).list()
Explanation: Converting to a set removes duplicates; converting back to list restores list type.

8. What is the difference between a tuple (1, 2, 3) and a list ?​
a) Tuple is mutable, List is immutable
b) Tuple is immutable, List is mutable (Correct)
c) Both are mutable
d) Both are immutable
Explanation: Lists can be changed; tuples cannot.

9. Can a Python dictionary have two keys with the same name?
a) Yes, it merges both keys
b) Yes, but only if values are same
c) No, last key overwrites the previous one (Correct)
d) No, it throws an error
Explanation: Duplicate keys overwrite previous keys in dictionaries.

10. What does immutable mean in Python?
a) Object can be changed after creation
b) Object cannot be changed after creation (Correct)
c) Object can be deleted
d) Object can store multiple data types
Explanation: Immutable objects cannot be altered after creation, like tuples or strings.